Session
-------
hydrological studies employing weather radars

Title
-----

wradlib - an open source library for weather radar data processing

Authors
-------
Thomas Pfaff, Maik Heistermann, Stephan Jacobi


Abstract
--------

Weather radar data has many uses in meteorology, hydrology, disaster prevention 
and mitigation. Its ability to provide information on precipitation on a high 
spatial and temporal scale over large areas makes it an invaluable tool for 
short term weather forecasting or flash flood forecasting.

The indirect method of measuring the precipitation field, however, leads to a 
significant number of data artifacts, which usually must be removed or dealt 
with before the data can be used with good accuracy.

While there is increasing cooperation between national weather services 
regarding the homogenization of data formats and processing tools, in research, 
most groups working with weather radar data have developed their own set of 
tools to transform the measurements from polar to cartesian coordinates, compose 
the data of several radar sites on one common grid, deal with clutter, do 
attenuation, VPR and other corrections, do gauge adjustment and visualize the 
data.

The wradlib project has been initiated in order to provide an open source 
library for the full range of weather radar related processing algorithms, which 
is well documented and easy to use in order to foster the use of weather radar 
data in the geosciences and to provide a common platform for research on new 
algorithms.

The main parts of the library are currently implemented in the python 
programming language. Python is well known both for its ease of use as well as 
its ability to integrate code written in other programming languages like 
Fortran or C/C++. The well established Numpy and Scipy packages are used to 
provide decent performance for the pure Python implementations. We welcome 
contributions written in any computer langugage and will try to make them 
acessible from Python.

We would like to present the current state of this library together with a few 
showcase examples.